L38 THIRTY—SIX DRAMATIC SITUATIONS

and exact representation—with no groping, no un-
certainty, n0 retention of superﬂuities—of the partic-
ular bit of nature under observation

But it is more than this, for these two deﬁnitions,
the eclectic and the naturalist, concern but a limited
number of the arts, and but one side of them; that
small number to which imitation is open (painting,
literature of character, and, in a limited way, sculp-
ture), and that side of them which is purely imitative.
What signiﬁcance have these two deﬁnitions (both of
which rest upon the reproduction of reality, the one
exalting and the other belittling it) if they be con-
fronted with Music, with the didactic poetry 'of a
Hesiod, with the Vedic incantations, with true statu-
ary, simpliﬁed and signiﬁcant, froin the mighty chisel-
strokes of Phidias or of the X111 Century, with purely
ornamental or decorative art,—the “beauty” of a
demonstration in geometry,—or ﬁnally with Architec-
ture, now reviving in silence and obscurity, that art
which comes periodically to reunite and, like an ark, to
rescue the others, that art which shall once more
return to lead us away from the prematurely senile
follies of our delettanti and sectarians.

Upon a like height stands a principle greater than
Naturalism with its experimental method, or Idealv
ism which gives battle to it,——Logic.

It is by methods of logic that Viollet-le-Duc has en-

' abled us to estimate truly the marvels of our “grand
siecle,” the X111 Century, substituting (to cite only
this) for the simple admiration of 1830 before each
stone saint so “picturesquely” perched upon the point
of an ogive, the builders’ explanation: that a stone of
the exact weight and dimensions of the saint was there
absolutely necessary, to prevent the breaking of the
ogive under a double lateral pressure,—whence the in-
stinctive satisfaction it gives our eyes. It is a great
misfortune that the understanding of that magniﬁcent

 

