FIRST SITUATION 19

tions had not in the beginning shown the same vigor-
ous simplicity!

It is, however, our modern predilection for the com-
plex which, to my mind, explains the favor 110w
accorded to group C alone, wherein by easy means a
fourth ﬁgure (in essence, unfortunately, a somewhat
parasitic and monotonous one), the Intercessor, is
added to the trinity of Persecutor, Suppliant and
Power.

Of what variety, nevertheless, is this trinity capable!
The Persecutor,—one or many, voluntary or unconsci-
ous, greedy or revengeful, spreading the subtle net-
work of diplomacy, or revealing himself beneath the
formidable pomp of the greatest contemporary powers ;
the Suppliant, artless or eloquent, virtuous or guilty,
humble or great; and the Power, neutral or partial to
one side or the other, perhaps inferior in strength to
the Persecutor and surrounded by his own kindred who
fear danger, perhaps deceived by a semblance of right
and justice, perhaps obliged to sacriﬁce a high ideal;
sometimes severely logical, sometimes emotionally
susceptible, or even overcome by a conversion a la
Dostoievsky, and, as a ﬁnal thunderbolt, abandoning the
errors which he believed to be truth, if not ineeed the
truth which he believed to be entor!

Nowhere, certainly, can the vicissitudes of powen. be
it arbitral, tyrannical, or overthrown,—the supersti-
tions which may accompany doubt and indecision,——on
the one side the sudden turns of popular opinion, on
the other the anxiety with which they are awaited,—
despairs and their resulting blasphemies,—hope sur-
viving to the last breath,—the blind brutality of fate,—
nowhere can they become so condensed and burst forth
with such power as in this First Situation, in our day
ignored.

France’s enthusiastic sympathy for Poland, re-
vived during the last half-century; the same sympathy

 

