SECOND SITUATION
DELIVERANCE
(Elements: an Unfortunate, a Threatener, a Rescuer)

This is, in a way, the converse of the First Situation,
in which the unfortunate appeals to an undecided
power, whereas here an unexpected protector, of his
own accord, comes suddenly to the rescue of the dis-
tressed and despairing.

A—Appearance of a Rescuer to the Condemned:—
The “Andromedas” of Sophocles, of Euripides and of
Comeille; “Le Jeu de Saint Nicolas” (Jean Bodel).
Partial examples: the ﬁrst act of “Lohengrin;" the
third act of Voltaire’s “Tancred;" the role of the
generous patron in “Boislaurier” (Richard, 1884). The
last example and the following show particularly the
honor of the unfortunate at stake: Daniel and Susanna,
and various exploits of chivalry. A parody: “Don
Quixote.” A familiar instance: judicial assistance.
The denouement of “Bluebeard” (here the element of
kinship enters, in the defense by brothers of their
sister, and increases the pathos by the most simple of
means, forgotten, however, by our playwrights).

B (1)—A Parent Replaced Upon a Throne by his
Children:—“Aegeus" and “Peleus,” by Sophocles;
Euripides’ "Antiope." Cases in which the children have
previously been abandoned are “Athamas I" and also
the “Tyro” of Sophocles. (The taste of the future
author of "(Edipus at Colonus” for stories in which

21

 

