Skates, Skis, and a Saphead
by
William Wallace Cook

Wide Awake Magazine, Volume 4, Number 3, Jan 10 1916


Deeply steeped in gloom perfectly described the condition of young Nixon J. Peters. Loneliness
and bitter regret pervaded his soul as he sat by himself on the rear seat of the flying sleigh
and thought of what might have been. He had reason to believe that he was the best skater and
ski jumper entered in the winter sports contest at Devil's Lake, on the preceding afternoon,
and yet he had lost both main events by an apparent failure to look well to his equipment at
the last moment. Every one had expected that he would blunder somewhere, and so no one was
greatly disappointed; that is no on except Nixon J. Peters.

Almost at the take-off of the jump, one of Nixons's skis had broken. He had taken a wild
header, and landed in a snow bank with heels in the air. A big laugh had been the result. Also,
he had cast a skate at the critical moment of the skating race, and the other contestants had
slit past him, Porter Markham in the lead. This same Porter Markham too had won the ski jump.
Now Porter Markham was on the front seat of the sleigh, driving blithely and exchanging jest
and small talk with Hesther Morton, who sat beside him. Truly, Nixon J. Peters's lines had
fallen in hard places.

Nixon was Nix to those who knew him best. Often he suffered the crowning indignity of being
referred to as the Saphead. He had heard the unlovely nickname applied to him many times while
digging himself out of the snow bank. It had punctuated the merriment released by his sorry
mishap. Hesther Morton had joined in the riot of laughter. Nixon knew this only too well, for
she was the first person he had seen after digging the snow out of his eyes. For Hesther to be
amused at his expense, well, that was something that hurt.

Then, while seeking, with dogged resolution to retrieve himself on the steel runners, a strap
had broken, ad a skate had shot off across the glittering ice. Peters had slipped and slammed
around on the course like a crazy curling stone, finally cutting the feet out from under a fat
spectator, who called him Saphead right to his face! Ah, what a wind-up for a sorry afternoon!
Peters clenched his hands in his bearskin gloves and crouched down on the rear seat in a
fruitless effort to efface himself.

He was nineteen, and Porter Markham was twenty. They both worked for Uncle Silas Goddard, who
had a ranch in Montana, and made a business of sending range horses into North Dakota to be
halter broken and sold to the settlers. Goddard was uncle to all his men, in the sense that
gives an avuncular character to every genial, middle-aged person who looks after the welfare of
younger employees. 

In the early summer, Uncle Silas had sent a hundred horses into North Dakota. Business had not
been good and late fall found half the horses still outhand. These horses were being wintered
at the Morton ranch, on marsh hay, cut and stacked by Peters, Markham, and Reece Bailey, who
had been sent by Uncle Silas to take care of the horse herd. When spring came, there was a
promise of turning off every head of the stock at a good profit.

The winter, so far, had not been particularly lonely for the Montana men. The snows of December
had been light and it had been possible for th horses to paw out considerable forage in the
hills. January, however brought in a good fall of the beautiful and it had been necessary to
corral and shelter the animals and to go extensively into the feeding.

Reese Bailey, Uncle Si's foreman, found time to play cribbage with Lance Morton, Hesther's
Father; and Peters and Nixon acquired leisure for skating and skiing, popular sports at their
home ranch in the Rockies. A river---it would have been a creek in a country of large
streams---flowed through the Morton holdings, and its glassy surface offered a resistless
invitation to the steel runners. As for the skiing, there were plam and hill for running,
climbing, and glissading. While Bailey and Morton were busy at their eternal fifteen-two,
fifteen-four, Peters and Markham were skating or skiing, often with Hesther, who was fond of
both sports. The girl, if appearances were to be believed was rather fond of Markham, also, but
had few smiles to waste on Peters.

In his bashful, blundering way, Peters tried to make himself agreeable to Hesther. He was big
and awkward, however and had tow-colored hair, a slow wit, and a few graces of speech or
manner. His efforts to impress Hesther were overwhelmed by the never failing persiflage and the
rakish dress and carriage of handsome Porter Markham. Markham posessed a confidence in himself
that was sublime, a confidence that shone brilliantly in contrast with clumsy ineffectiveness
of Nixon J. Peters.

Peters realized this and nourished a bitter grudge against his physical and mental
shortcomings. He used to dream of a fire at the ranch, in which he posed as a hero, and bore
the fair Hesther to safety from the ranch house, through a furnace of flames. Then, in his
visions, hi pictured the girl as taking his hand and humbly asking his forgiveness for her
failure to perceive his sterling qualities from the first. During such moments of illusion the
Saphead was almost happy. But the ranch house never took fire, and the chance to prove himself
a hero by rescuing Hesther Morton was denied by fate.

In mid-January however an opportunity presented itself, through the winter sports at Devil's
Lake. Markham and Peters entered themselves in the ski-jumping context and skating race. They
drove the fifty miles which separated Morton's from the lagke and Hesther went with them to see
the carnival of sports and to spend a night or two with relatives in Devil's Lake City. Again
Peters had dreams; but now, on the homeward drive, every hope was shattered and he longed for
for a period of blank obscurity and complete retirement.

He could have declared that one of his skis had been tampered with, and
