

Just after passing Caraher's saloon, on the County Road that ran south
from Bonneville, and that divided the Broderson ranch from that of Los
Muertos, Presley was suddenly aware of the faint and prolonged blowing
of a steam whistle that he knew must come from the railroad shops near
the depot at Bonneville. In starting out from the ranch house that
morning, he had forgotten his watch, and was now perplexed to know
whether the whistle was blowing for twelve or for one o'clock. He hoped
the former. Early that morning he had decided to make a long excursion
through the neighbouring country, partly on foot and partly on his
bicycle, and now noon was come already, and as yet he had hardly
started. As he was leaving the house after breakfast, Mrs. Derrick had
asked him to go for the mail at Bonneville, and he had not been able to
refuse.

He took a firmer hold of the cork grips of his handlebars--the road
being in a wretched condition after the recent hauling of the crop--and
quickened his pace. He told himself that, no matter what the time was,
he would not stop for luncheon at the ranch house, but would push on
to Guadalajara and have a Spanish dinner at Solotari's, as he had
originally planned.

There had not been much of a crop to haul that year. Half of the wheat
on the Broderson ranch had failed entirely, and Derrick himself had
hardly raised more than enough to supply seed for the winter's sowing.
But such little hauling as there had been had reduced the roads
thereabouts to a lamentable condition, and, during the dry season of the
past few months, the layer of dust had deepened and thickened to such
an extent that more than once Presley was obliged to dismount and trudge
along on foot, pushing his bicycle in front of him.

It was the last half of September, the very end of the dry season, and
all Tulare County, all the vast reaches of the San Joaquin Valley--in
fact all South Central California, was bone dry, parched, and baked
and crisped after four months of cloudless weather, when the day seemed
always at noon, and the sun blazed white hot over the valley from the
Coast Range in the west to the foothills of the Sierras in the east.

As Presley drew near to the point where what was known as the Lower Road
struck off through the Rancho de Los Muertos, leading on to Guadalajara,
he came upon one of the county watering-tanks, a great, iron-hooped
tower of wood, straddling clumsily on its four uprights by the roadside.
Since the day of its completion, the storekeepers and retailers of
Bonneville had painted their advertisements upon it. It was a landmark.
In that reach of level fields, the white letters upon it could be read
for miles. A watering-trough stood near by, and, as he was very thirsty,
Presley resolved to stop for a moment to get a drink.

He drew abreast of the tank and halted there, leaning his bicycle
against the fence. A couple of men in white overalls were repainting
the surface of the tank, seated on swinging platforms that hung by hooks
from the roof. They were painting a sign--an advertisement. It was all
but finished and read, “S. Behrman, Real Estate, Mortgages, Main Street,
Bonneville, Opposite the Post Office.” On the horse-trough that stood
in the shadow of the tank was another freshly painted inscription: “S.
Behrman Has Something To Say To You.”

As Presley straightened up after drinking from the faucet at one end of
the horse-trough, the watering-cart itself laboured into view around
the turn of the Lower Road. Two mules and two horses, white with dust,
strained leisurely in the traces, moving at a snail's pace, their limp
ears marking the time; while perched high upon the seat, under a yellow
cotton wagon umbrella, Presley recognised Hooven, one of Derrick's
tenants, a German, whom every one called “Bismarck,” an excitable little
man with a perpetual grievance and an endless flow of broken English.

“Hello, Bismarck,” said Presley, as Hooven brought his team to a
standstill by the tank, preparatory to refilling.

“Yoost der men I look for, Mist'r Praicely,” cried the other, twisting
the reins around the brake. “Yoost one minute, you wait, hey? I wanta
talk mit you.”

Presley was impatient to be on his way again. A little more time wasted,
and the day would be lost. He had nothing to do with the management
of the ranch, and if Hooven wanted any advice from him, it was so much
breath wasted. These uncouth brutes of farmhands and petty ranchers,
grimed with the soil they worked upon, were odious to him beyond words.
Never could he feel in sympathy with them, nor with their lives, their
ways, their marriages, deaths, bickerings, and all the monotonous round
of their sordid existence.

“Well, you must be quick about it, Bismarck,” he answered sharply. “I'm
late for dinner, as it is.”

“Soh, now. Two minuten, und I be mit you.” He drew down the overhanging
spout of the tank to the vent in the circumference of the cart and
pulled the chain that let out the water. Then he climbed down from the
seat, jumping from the tire of the wheel, and taking Presley by the arm
led him a few steps down the road.

“Say,” he began. “Say, I want to hef some converzations mit you. Yoost
der men I want to see. Say, Caraher, he tole me dis morgen--say, he tole
me Mist'r Derrick gowun to farm der whole demn rench hisseluf der next
yahr. No more tenants. Say, Caraher, he tole me all der tenants get der
sach; Mist'r Derrick gowun to work der whole demn rench hisseluf, hey?
ME, I get der sach alzoh, hey? You hef hear about dose ting? Say, me, I
hef on der ranch been sieben yahr--seven yahr. Do I alzoh----”

“You'll have to see Derrick himself or Harran about that, Bismarck,”
 interrupted Presley, trying to draw away. “That's something outside of
me entirely.”

But Hooven was not to be put off. No doubt he had been meditating his
speech all the morning, formulating his words, preparing his phrases.

“Say, no, no,” he continued. “Me, I wanta stay bei der place; seven yahr
I hef stay. Mist'r Derrick, he doand want dot I should be ge-sacked.
Who, den, will der ditch ge-tend? Say, you tell 'um Bismarck hef gotta
sure stay bei der place. Say, you hef der pull mit der Governor. You
speak der gut word for me.”

“Harran is the man that has the pull with his father, Bismarck,”
 answered Presley. “You get Harran to speak for you, and you're all
right.”

“Sieben yahr I hef stay,” protested Hooven, “and who will der ditch
ge-tend, und alle dem cettles drive?”

“Well, Harran's your man,” answered Presley, preparing to mount his
bicycle.

“Say, you hef hear about dose ting?”

“I don't hear about anything, Bismarck. I don't know the first thing
about how the ranch is run.”

“UND DER PIPE-LINE GE-MEND,” Hooven burst out, suddenly remembering a
forgotten argument. He waved an arm. “Ach, der pipe-line bei der Mission
Greek, und der waater-hole for dose cettles. Say, he doand doo ut
HIMSELLUF, berhaps, I doand tink.”

“Well, talk to Harran about it.”

“Say, he doand farm der whole demn rench bei hisseluf. Me, I gotta
stay.”

But on a sudden the water in the cart gushed over the sides from the
vent in the top with a smart sound of splashing. Hooven was forced to
turn his attention to it. Presley got his wheel under way.

“I hef some converzations mit Herran,” Hooven called after him. “He
doand doo ut bei hisseluf, den, Mist'r Derrick; ach, no. I stay bei der
rench to drive dose cettles.”

He climbed back to his seat under the wagon umbrella, and, as he
started his team again with great cracks of his long whip, turned to the
painters still at work upon the sign and declared with some defiance:

“Sieben yahr; yais, sir, seiben yahr I hef been on dis rench. Git oop,
you mule you, hoop!”

Meanwhile Presley had turned into the Lower Road. He was now on
Derrick's land, division No. I, or, as it was called, the Home ranch,
of the great Los Muertos Rancho. The road was better here, the dust laid
after the passage of Hooven's watering-cart, and, in a few minutes, he
had come to the ranch house itself, with its white picket fence, its few
flower beds, and grove of eucalyptus trees. On the lawn at the side
of the house, he saw Harran in the act of setting out the automatic
sprinkler. In the shade of the house, by the porch, were two or three
of the greyhounds, part of the pack that were used to hunt down
jack-rabbits, and Godfrey, Harran's prize deerhound.

Presley wheeled up the driveway and met Harran by the horse-block.
Harran was Magnus Derrick's youngest son, a very well-looking young
fellow of twenty-three or twenty-five. He had the fine carriage that
marked his father, and still further resembled him in that he had the
Derrick nose--hawk-like and prominent, such as one sees in the later
portraits of the Duke of Wellington. He was blond, and incessant
exposure to the sun had, instead of tanning him brown, merely heightened
the colour of his cheeks. His yellow hair had a tendency to curl in a
forward direction, just in front of the ears.

Beside him, Presley made the sharpest of contrasts. Presley seemed to
have come of a mixed origin; appeared to have a nature more composite,
a temperament more complex. Unlike Harran Derrick, he seemed more of a
character than a type. The sun had browned his face till it was almost
swarthy. His eyes were a dark brown, and his forehead was the forehead
of the intellectual, wide and high, with a certain unmistakable lift
about it that argued education, not only of himself, but of his people
before him. The impression conveyed by his mouth and chin was that of
a delicate and highly sensitive nature, the lips thin and loosely shut
together, the chin small and rather receding. One guessed that Presley's
refinement had been gained only by a certain loss of strength. One
expected to find him nervous, introspective, to discover that his mental
life was not at all the result of impressions and sensations that came
to him from without, but rather of thoughts and reflections germinating
from within. Though morbidly sensitive to changes in his physical
surroundings, he would be slow to act upon such sensations, would not
prove impulsive, not because he was sluggish, but because he was merely
irresolute. It could be foreseen that morally he was of that sort
who avoid evil through good taste, lack of decision, and want of
opportunity. His temperament was that of the poet; when he told himself
he had been thinking, he deceived himself. He had, on such occasions,
been only brooding.

Some eighteen months before this time, he had been threatened with
consumption, and, taking advantage of a standing invitation on the part
of Magnus Derrick, had come to stay in the dry, even climate of the San
Joaquin for an indefinite length of time. He was thirty years old,
and had graduated and post-graduated with high honours from an
Eastern college, where he had devoted himself to a passionate study of
literature, and, more especially, of poetry.

It was his insatiable ambition to write verse. But up to this time,
his work had been fugitive, ephemeral, a note here and there, heard,
appreciated, and forgotten. He was in search of a subject; something
magnificent, he did not know exactly what; some vast, tremendous theme,
heroic, terrible, to be unrolled in all the thundering progression of
hexameters.

But whatever he wrote, and in whatever fashion, Presley was determined
that his poem should be of the West, that world's frontier of Romance,
where a new race, a new people--hardy, brave, and passionate--were
building an empire; where the tumultuous life ran like fire from dawn
to dark, and from dark to dawn again, primitive, brutal, honest, and
without fear. Something (to his idea not much) had been done to catch at
that life in passing, but its poet had not yet arisen. The few sporadic
attempts, thus he told himself, had only touched the keynote. He strove
for the diapason, the great song that should embrace in itself a whole
epoch, a complete era, the voice of an entire people, wherein all people
should be included--they and their legends, their folk lore, their
fightings, their loves and their lusts, their blunt, grim humour, their
stoicism under stress, their adventures, their treasures found in a day
and gambled in a night, their direct, crude speech, their generosity
and cruelty, their heroism and bestiality, their religion and profanity,
their self-sacrifice and obscenity--a true and fearless setting forth of
a passing phase of history, un-compromising, sincere; each group in its
proper environment; the valley, the plain, and the mountain; the ranch,
the range, and the mine--all this, all the traits and types of every
community from the Dakotas to the Mexicos, from Winnipeg to Guadalupe,
gathered together, swept together, welded and riven together in one
single, mighty song, the Song of the West. That was what he dreamed,
while things without names--thoughts for which no man had yet invented
words, terrible formless shapes, vague figures, colossal, monstrous,
distorted--whirled at a gallop through his imagination.

As Harran came up, Presley reached down into the pouches of the
sun-bleached shooting coat he wore and drew out and handed him the
packet of letters and papers.

“Here's the mail. I think I shall go on.”

“But dinner is ready,” said Harran; “we are just sitting down.”

Presley shook his head. “No, I'm in a hurry. Perhaps I shall have
something to eat at Guadalajara. I shall be gone all day.”

He delayed a few moments longer, tightening a loose nut on his forward
wheel, while Harran, recognising his father's handwriting on one of the
envelopes, slit it open and cast his eye rapidly over its pages.

“The Governor is coming home,” he exclaimed, “to-morrow morning on the
early train; wants me to meet him with the team at Guadalajara; AND,” he
cried between his clenched teeth, as he continued to read, “we've lost
the case.”

“What case? Oh, in the matter of rates?”

Harran nodded, his eyes flashing, his face growing suddenly scarlet.

“Ulsteen gave his decision yesterday,” he continued, reading from his
father's letter. “He holds, Ulsteen does, that 'grain rates as low as
the new figure would amount to confiscation of property, and that, on
such a basis, the railroad could not be operated at a legitimate profit.
As he is powerless to legislate in the matter, he can only put the rates
back at what they originally were before the commissioners made the
cut, and it is so ordered.' That's our friend S. Behrman again,” added
Harran, grinding his teeth. “He was up in the city the whole of the time
the new schedule was being drawn, and he and Ulsteen and the Railroad
Commission were as thick as thieves. He has been up there all this last
week, too, doing the railroad's dirty work, and backing Ulsteen up.
'Legitimate profit, legitimate profit,'” he broke out. “Can we raise
wheat at a legitimate profit with a tariff of four dollars a ton for
moving it two hundred miles to tide-water, with wheat at eighty-seven
cents? Why not hold us up with a gun in our faces, and say, 'hands up,'
and be done with it?”

He dug his boot-heel into the ground and turned away to the house
abruptly, cursing beneath his breath.

“By the way,” Presley called after him, “Hooven wants to see you. He
asked me about this idea of the Governor's of getting along without the
tenants this year. Hooven wants to stay to tend the ditch and look after
the stock. I told him to see you.”

Harran, his mind full of other things, nodded to say he understood.
Presley only waited till he had disappeared indoors, so that he might
not seem too indifferent to his trouble; then, remounting, struck at
once into a brisk pace, and, turning out from the carriage gate, held
on swiftly down the Lower Road, going in the direction of Guadalajara.
These matters, these eternal fierce bickerings between the farmers of
the San Joaquin and the Pacific and Southwestern Railroad irritated him
and wearied him. He cared for none of these things. They did not belong
to his world. In the picture of that huge romantic West that he saw in
his imagination, these dissensions made the one note of harsh colour
that refused to enter into the great scheme of harmony. It was material,
sordid, deadly commonplace. But, however he strove to shut his eyes to
it or his ears to it, the thing persisted and persisted. The romance
seemed complete up to that point. There it broke, there it failed, there
it became realism, grim, unlovely, unyielding. To be true--and it was
the first article of his creed to be unflinchingly true--he could not
ignore it. All the noble poetry of the ranch--the valley--seemed in his
mind to be marred and disfigured by the presence of certain immovable
facts. Just what he wanted, Presley hardly knew. On one hand, it was his
ambition to portray life as he saw it--directly, frankly, and through no
medium of personality or temperament. But, on the other hand, as well,
he wished to see everything through a rose-coloured mist--a mist that
dulled all harsh outlines, all crude and violent colours. He told
himself that, as a part of the people, he loved the people and
sympathised with their hopes and fears, and joys and griefs; and yet
Hooven, grimy and perspiring, with his perpetual grievance and his
contracted horizon, only revolted him. He had set himself the task of
giving true, absolutely true, poetical expression to the life of the
ranch, and yet, again and again, he brought up against the railroad,
that stubborn iron barrier against which his romance shattered itself to
froth and disintegrated, flying spume. His heart went out to the people,
and his groping hand met that of a slovenly little Dutchman, whom it was
impossible to consider seriously. He searched for the True Romance, and,
in the end, found grain rates and unjust freight tariffs.

“But the stuff is HERE,” he muttered, as he sent his wheel rumbling
across the bridge over Broderson Creek. “The romance, the real romance,
is here somewhere. I'll get hold of it yet.”

He shot a glance about him as if in search of the inspiration. By now he
was not quite half way across the northern and narrowest corner of Los
Muertos, at this point some eight miles wide. He was still on the Home
ranch. A few miles to the south he could just make out the line of wire
fence that separated it from the third division; and to the north, seen
faint and blue through the haze and shimmer of the noon sun, a long file
of telegraph poles showed the line of the railroad and marked Derrick's
northeast boundary. The road over which Presley was travelling ran
almost diametrically straight. In front of him, but at a great distance,
he could make out the giant live-oak and the red roof of Hooven's barn
that stood near it.

All about him the country was flat. In all directions he could see for
miles. The harvest was just over. Nothing but stubble remained on the
ground. With the one exception of the live-oak by Hooven's place, there
was nothing green in sight. The wheat stubble was of a dirty yellow; the
ground, parched, cracked, and dry, of a cheerless brown. By the roadside
the dust lay thick and grey, and, on either hand, stretching on toward
the horizon, losing itself in a mere smudge in the distance, ran the
illimitable parallels of the wire fence. And that was all; that and the
burnt-out blue of the sky and the steady shimmer of the heat.

The silence was infinite. After the harvest, small though that harvest
had been, the ranches seemed asleep. It was as though the earth, after
its period of reproduction, its pains of labour, had been delivered of
the fruit of its loins, and now slept the sleep of exhaustion.

It was the period between seasons, when nothing was being done, when the
natural forces seemed to hang suspended. There was no rain, there was no
wind, there was no growth, no life; the very stubble had no force even
to rot. The sun alone moved.

Toward two o'clock, Presley reached Hooven's place, two or three grimy
frame buildings, infested with a swarm of dogs. A hog or two wandered
aimlessly about. Under a shed by the barn, a broken-down seeder lay
rusting to its ruin. But overhead, a mammoth live-oak, the largest tree
in all the country-side, towered superb and magnificent. Grey bunches
of mistletoe and festoons of trailing moss hung from its bark. From its
lowest branch hung Hooven's meat-safe, a square box, faced with wire
screens.

What gave a special interest to Hooven's was the fact that here was the
intersection of the Lower Road and Derrick's main irrigating ditch, a
vast trench not yet completed, which he and Annixter, who worked the
Quien Sabe ranch, were jointly constructing. It ran directly across
the road and at right angles to it, and lay a deep groove in the field
between Hooven's and the town of Guadalajara, some three miles farther
on. Besides this, the ditch was a natural boundary between two divisions
of the Los Muertos ranch, the first and fourth.

Presley now had the choice of two routes. His objective point was the
spring at the headwaters of Broderson Creek, in the hills on the
eastern side of the Quien Sabe ranch. The trail afforded him a short cut
thitherward. As he passed the house, Mrs. Hooven came to the door, her
little daughter Hilda, dressed in a boy's overalls and clumsy boots, at
her skirts. Minna, her oldest daughter, a very pretty girl, whose
love affairs were continually the talk of all Los Muertos, was visible
through a window of the house, busy at the week's washing. Mrs. Hooven
was a faded, colourless woman, middle-aged and commonplace, and offering
not the least characteristic that would distinguish her from a thousand
other women of her class and kind. She nodded to Presley, watching
him with a stolid gaze from under her arm, which she held across her
forehead to shade her eyes.

But now Presley exerted himself in good earnest. His bicycle flew.
He resolved that after all he would go to Guadalajara. He crossed the
bridge over the irrigating ditch with a brusque spurt of hollow sound,
and shot forward down the last stretch of the Lower Road that yet
intervened between Hooven's and the town. He was on the fourth division
of the ranch now, the only one whereon the wheat had been successful, no
doubt because of the Little Mission Creek that ran through it. But he no
longer occupied himself with the landscape. His only concern was to get
on as fast as possible. He had looked forward to spending nearly the
whole day on the crest of the wooded hills in the northern corner of the
Quien Sabe ranch, reading, idling, smoking his pipe. But now he would
do well if he arrived there by the middle of the afternoon. In a few
moments he had reached the line fence that marked the limits of the
ranch. Here were the railroad tracks, and just beyond--a huddled mass of
roofs, with here and there an adobe house on its outskirts--the little
town of Guadalajara. Nearer at hand, and directly in front of Presley,
were the freight and passenger depots of the P. and S. W., painted in
the grey and white, which seemed to be the official colours of all the
buildings owned by the corporation. The station was deserted. No trains
passed at this hour. From the direction of the ticket window, Presley
heard the unsteady chittering of the telegraph key. In the shadow of
one of the baggage trucks upon the platform, the great yellow cat that
belonged to the agent dozed complacently, her paws tucked under her
body. Three flat cars, loaded with bright-painted farming machines,
were on the siding above the station, while, on the switch below, a huge
freight engine that lacked its cow-catcher sat back upon its monstrous
driving-wheels, motionless, solid, drawing long breaths that were
punctuated by the subdued sound of its steam-pump clicking at exact
intervals.

But evidently it had been decreed that Presley should be stopped at
every point of his ride that day, for, as he was pushing his bicycle
across the tracks, he was surprised to hear his name called. “Hello,
there, Mr. Presley. What's the good word?”

Presley looked up quickly, and saw Dyke, the engineer, leaning on
his folded arms from the cab window of the freight engine. But at the
prospect of this further delay, Presley was less troubled. Dyke and he
were well acquainted and the best of friends. The picturesqueness of the
engineer's life was always attractive to Presley, and more than once he
had ridden on Dyke's engine between Guadalajara and Bonneville. Once,
even, he had made the entire run between the latter town and San
Francisco in the cab.

Dyke's home was in Guadalajara. He lived in one of the remodelled 'dobe
cottages, where his mother kept house for him. His wife had died some
five years before this time, leaving him a little daughter, Sidney, to
bring up as best he could. Dyke himself was a heavy built, well-looking
fellow, nearly twice the weight of Presley, with great shoulders and
massive, hairy arms, and a tremendous, rumbling voice.

“Hello, old man,” answered Presley, coming up to the engine. “What are
you doing about here at this time of day? I thought you were on the
night service this month.”

“We've changed about a bit,” answered the other. “Come up here and sit
down, and get out of the sun. They've held us here to wait orders,” he
explained, as Presley, after leaning his bicycle against the tender,
climbed to the fireman's seat of worn green leather. “They are changing
the run of one of the crack passenger engines down below, and are
sending her up to Fresno. There was a smash of some kind on the
Bakersfield division, and she's to hell and gone behind her time. I
suppose when she comes, she'll come a-humming. It will be stand clear
and an open track all the way to Fresno. They have held me here to let
her go by.”

He took his pipe, an old T. D. clay, but coloured to a beautiful shiny
black, from the pocket of his jumper and filled and lit it.

“Well, I don't suppose you object to being held here,” observed Presley.
“Gives you a chance to visit your mother and the little girl.”

“And precisely they choose this day to go up to Sacramento,” answered
Dyke. “Just my luck. Went up to visit my brother's people. By the way,
my brother may come down here--locate here, I mean--and go into the
hop-raising business. He's got an option on five hundred acres just back
of the town here. He says there is going to be money in hops. I don't
know; may be I'll go in with him.”

“Why, what's the matter with railroading?”

Dyke drew a couple of puffs on his pipe, and fixed Presley with a
glance.

“There's this the matter with it,” he said; “I'm fired.”

“Fired! You!” exclaimed Presley, turning abruptly toward him. “That's
what I'm telling you,” returned Dyke grimly.

“You don't mean it. Why, what for, Dyke?”

“Now, YOU tell me what for,” growled the other savagely. “Boy and man,
I've worked for the P. and S. W. for over ten years, and never one yelp
of a complaint did I ever hear from them. They know damn well they've
not got a steadier man on the road. And more than that, more than that,
I don't belong to the Brotherhood. And when the strike came along, I
stood by them--stood by the company. You know that. And you know, and
they know, that at Sacramento that time, I ran my train according to
schedule, with a gun in each hand, never knowing when I was going over a
mined culvert, and there was talk of giving me a gold watch at the
time. To hell with their gold watches! I want ordinary justice and fair
treatment. And now, when hard times come along, and they are cutting
wages, what do they do? Do they make any discrimination in my case? Do
they remember the man that stood by them and risked his life in their
service? No. They cut my pay down just as off-hand as they do the pay
of any dirty little wiper in the yard. Cut me along with--listen to
this--cut me along with men that they had BLACK-LISTED; strikers that
they took back because they were short of hands.” He drew fiercely on
his pipe. “I went to them, yes, I did; I went to the General Office, and
ate dirt. I told them I was a family man, and that I didn't see how
I was going to get along on the new scale, and I reminded them of my
service during the strike. The swine told me that it wouldn't be fair
to discriminate in favour of one man, and that the cut must apply to all
their employees alike. Fair!” he shouted with laughter. “Fair! Hear the
P. and S. W. talking about fairness and discrimination. That's good,
that is. Well, I got furious. I was a fool, I suppose. I told them that,
in justice to myself, I wouldn't do first-class work for third-class
pay. And they said, 'Well, Mr. Dyke, you know what you can do.' Well, I
did know. I said, 'I'll ask for my time, if you please,' and they gave
it to me just as if they were glad to be shut of me. So there you are,
Presley. That's the P. & S. W. Railroad Company of California. I am on
my last run now.”

“Shameful,” declared Presley, his sympathies all aroused, now that the
trouble concerned a friend of his. “It's shameful, Dyke. But,” he added,
an idea occurring to him, “that don't shut you out from work. There are
other railroads in the State that are not controlled by the P. and S.
W.”

Dyke smote his knee with his clenched fist.

“NAME ONE.”

Presley was silent. Dyke's challenge was unanswerable. There was a lapse
in their talk, Presley drumming on the arm of the seat, meditating on
this injustice; Dyke looking off over the fields beyond the town, his
frown lowering, his teeth rasping upon his pipestem. The station agent
came to the door of the depot, stretching and yawning. On ahead of the
engine, the empty rails of the track, reaching out toward the horizon,
threw off visible layers of heat. The telegraph key clicked incessantly.

“So I'm going to quit,” Dyke remarked after a while, his anger somewhat
subsided. “My brother and I will take up this hop ranch. I've saved a
good deal in the last ten years, and there ought to be money in hops.”

Presley went on, remounting his bicycle, wheeling silently through the
deserted streets of the decayed and dying Mexican town. It was the hour
of the siesta. Nobody was about. There was no business in the town. It
was too close to Bonneville for that. Before the railroad came, and
in the days when the raising of cattle was the great industry of
the country, it had enjoyed a fierce and brilliant life. Now it was
moribund. The drug store, the two bar-rooms, the hotel at the corner of
the old Plaza, and the shops where Mexican “curios” were sold to those
occasional Eastern tourists who came to visit the Mission of San Juan,
sufficed for the town's activity.

At Solotari's, the restaurant on the Plaza, diagonally across from the
hotel, Presley ate his long-deferred Mexican dinner--an omelette in
Spanish-Mexican style, frijoles and tortillas, a salad, and a glass
of white wine. In a corner of the room, during the whole course of his
dinner, two young Mexicans (one of whom was astonishingly handsome,
after the melodramatic fashion of his race) and an old fellow! the
centenarian of the town, decrepit beyond belief, sang an interminable
love-song to the accompaniment of a guitar and an accordion.

These Spanish-Mexicans, decayed, picturesque, vicious, and romantic,
never failed to interest Presley. A few of them still remained in
Guadalajara, drifting from the saloon to the restaurant, and from the
restaurant to the Plaza, relics of a former generation, standing for a
different order of things, absolutely idle, living God knew how, happy
with their cigarette, their guitar, their glass of mescal, and their
siesta. The centenarian remembered Fremont and Governor Alvarado, and
the bandit Jesus Tejeda, and the days when Los Muertos was a Spanish
grant, a veritable principality, leagues in extent, and when there
was never a fence from Visalia to Fresno. Upon this occasion, Presley
offered the old man a drink of mescal, and excited him to talk of the
things he remembered. Their talk was in Spanish, a language with which
Presley was familiar.

“De La Cuesta held the grant of Los Muertos in those days,” the
centenarian said; “a grand man. He had the power of life and death over
his people, and there was no law but his word. There was no thought of
wheat then, you may believe. It was all cattle in those days, sheep,
horses--steers, not so many--and if money was scarce, there was always
plenty to eat, and clothes enough for all, and wine, ah, yes, by the
vat, and oil too; the Mission Fathers had that. Yes, and there was wheat
as well, now that I come to think; but a very little--in the field north
of the Mission where now it is the Seed ranch; wheat fields were there,
and also a vineyard, all on Mission grounds. Wheat, olives, and the
vine; the Fathers planted those, to provide the elements of the Holy
Sacrament--bread, oil, and wine, you understand. It was like that, those
industries began in California--from the Church; and now,” he put his
chin in the air, “what would Father Ullivari have said to such a crop
as Senor Derrick plants these days? Ten thousand acres of wheat! Nothing
but wheat from the Sierra to the Coast Range. I remember when De La
Cuesta was married. He had never seen the young lady, only her miniature
portrait, painted”--he raised a shoulder--“I do not know by whom, small,
a little thing to be held in the palm. But he fell in love with that,
and marry her he would. The affair was arranged between him and the
girl's parents. But when the time came that De La Cuesta was to go to
Monterey to meet and marry the girl, behold, Jesus Tejeda broke in upon
the small rancheros near Terrabella. It was no time for De La Cuesta to
be away, so he sent his brother Esteban to Monterey to marry the girl by
proxy for him. I went with Esteban. We were a company, nearly a hundred
men. And De La Cuesta sent a horse for the girl to ride, white, pure
white; and the saddle was of red leather; the head-stall, the bit,
and buckles, all the metal work, of virgin silver. Well, there was
a ceremony in the Monterey Mission, and Esteban, in the name of his
brother, was married to the girl. On our way back, De La Cuesta rode
out to meet us. His company met ours at Agatha dos Palos. Never will
I forget De La Cuesta's face as his eyes fell upon the girl. It was a
look, a glance, come and gone like THAT,” he snapped his fingers. “No
one but I saw it, but I was close by. There was no mistaking that look.
De La Cuesta was disappointed.”

“And the girl?” demanded Presley.

“She never knew. Ah, he was a grand gentleman, De La Cuesta. Always he
treated her as a queen. Never was husband more devoted, more respectful,
more chivalrous. But love?” The old fellow put his chin in the air,
shutting his eyes in a knowing fashion. “It was not there. I could tell.
They were married over again at the Mission San Juan de Guadalajara--OUR
Mission--and for a week all the town of Guadalajara was in fete. There
were bull-fights in the Plaza--this very one--for five days, and to each
of his tenants-in-chief, De La Cuesta gave a horse, a barrel of tallow,
an ounce of silver, and half an ounce of gold dust. Ah, those were days.
That was a gay life. This”--he made a comprehensive gesture with his
left hand--“this is stupid.”

“You may well say that,” observed Presley moodily, discouraged by the
other's talk. All his doubts and uncertainty had returned to him. Never
would he grasp the subject of his great poem. To-day, the life was
colourless. Romance was dead. He had lived too late. To write of the
past was not what he desired. Reality was what he longed for, things
that he had seen. Yet how to make this compatible with romance. He rose,
putting on his hat, offering the old man a cigarette. The centenarian
accepted with the air of a grandee, and extended his horn snuff-box.
Presley shook his head.

“I was born too late for that,” he declared, “for that, and for many
other things. Adios.”

“You are travelling to-day, senor?”

“A little turn through the country, to get the kinks out of the
muscles,” Presley answered. “I go up into the Quien Sabe, into the high
country beyond the Mission.”

“Ah, the Quien Sabe rancho. The sheep are grazing there this week.”

Solotari, the keeper of the restaurant, explained:

“Young Annixter sold his wheat stubble on the ground to the sheep
raisers off yonder;” he motioned eastward toward the Sierra foothills.
“Since Sunday the herd has been down. Very clever, that young Annixter.
He gets a price for his stubble, which else he would have to burn, and
also manures his land as the sheep move from place to place. A true
Yankee, that Annixter, a good gringo.”

After his meal, Presley once more mounted his bicycle, and leaving the
restaurant and the Plaza behind him, held on through the main street of
the drowsing town--the street that farther on developed into the road
which turned abruptly northward and led onward through the hop-fields
and the Quien Sabe ranch toward the Mission of San Juan.

The Home ranch of the Quien Sabe was in the little triangle bounded on
the south by the railroad, on the northwest by Broderson Creek, and on
the east by the hop fields and the Mission lands. It was traversed in
all directions, now by the trail from Hooven's, now by the irrigating
ditch--the same which Presley had crossed earlier in the day--and again
by the road upon which Presley then found himself. In its centre were
Annixter's ranch house and barns, topped by the skeleton-like tower of
the artesian well that was to feed the irrigating ditch. Farther on,
the course of Broderson Creek was marked by a curved line of grey-green
willows, while on the low hills to the north, as Presley advanced, the
ancient Mission of San Juan de Guadalajara, with its belfry tower and
red-tiled roof, began to show itself over the crests of the venerable
pear trees that clustered in its garden.

When Presley reached Annixter's ranch house, he found young Annixter
himself stretched in his hammock behind the mosquito-bar on the front
porch, reading “David Copperfield,” and gorging himself with dried
prunes.

Annixter--after the two had exchanged greetings--complained of terrific
colics all the preceding night. His stomach was out of whack, but
you bet he knew how to take care of himself; the last spell, he had
consulted a doctor at Bonneville, a gibbering busy-face who had filled
him up to the neck with a dose of some hogwash stuff that had made him
worse--a healthy lot the doctors knew, anyhow. HIS case was peculiar. HE
knew; prunes were what he needed, and by the pound.

Annixter, who worked the Quien Sabe ranch--some four thousand acres
of rich clay and heavy loams--was a very young man, younger even than
Presley, like him a college graduate. He looked never a year older than
he was. He was smooth-shaven and lean built. But his youthful appearance
was offset by a certain male cast of countenance, the lower lip thrust
out, the chin large and deeply cleft. His university course had hardened
rather than polished him. He still remained one of the people, rough
almost to insolence, direct in speech, intolerant in his opinions,
relying upon absolutely no one but himself; yet, with all this, of
an astonishing degree of intelligence, and possessed of an executive
ability little short of positive genius. He was a ferocious worker,
allowing himself no pleasures, and exacting the same degree of energy
from all his subordinates. He was widely hated, and as widely trusted.
Every one spoke of his crusty temper and bullying disposition,
invariably qualifying the statement with a commendation of his resources
and capabilities. The devil of a driver, a hard man to get along with,
obstinate, contrary, cantankerous; but brains! No doubt of that; brains
to his boots. One would like to see the man who could get ahead of him
on a deal. Twice he had been shot at, once from ambush on Osterman's
ranch, and once by one of his own men whom he had kicked from the
sacking platform of his harvester for gross negligence. At college,
he had specialised on finance, political economy, and scientific
agriculture. After his graduation (he stood almost at the very top of
his class) he had returned and obtained the degree of civil engineer.
Then suddenly he had taken a notion that a practical knowledge of law
was indispensable to a modern farmer. In eight months he did the work of
three years, studying for his bar examinations. His method of study was
characteristic. He reduced all the material of his text-books to notes.
Tearing out the leaves of these note-books, he pasted them upon the
walls of his room; then, in his shirt-sleeves, a cheap cigar in his
teeth, his hands in his pockets, he walked around and around the room,
scowling fiercely at his notes, memorising, devouring, digesting. At
intervals, he drank great cupfuls of unsweetened, black coffee. When the
bar examinations were held, he was admitted at the very head of all the
applicants, and was complimented by the judge. Immediately afterwards,
he collapsed with nervous prostration; his stomach “got out of whack,”
 and he all but died in a Sacramento boarding-house, obstinately refusing
to have anything to do with doctors, whom he vituperated as a rabble
of quacks, dosing himself with a patent medicine and stuffing himself
almost to bursting with liver pills and dried prunes.

He had taken a trip to Europe after this sickness to put himself
completely to rights. He intended to be gone a year, but returned at
the end of six weeks, fulminating abuse of European cooking. Nearly his
entire time had been spent in Paris; but of this sojourn he had brought
back but two souvenirs, an electro-plated bill-hook and an empty bird
cage which had tickled his fancy immensely.

He was wealthy. Only a year previous to this his father--a widower, who
had amassed a fortune in land speculation--had died, and Annixter, the
only son, had come into the inheritance.

For Presley, Annixter professed a great admiration, holding in deep
respect the man who could rhyme words, deferring to him whenever there
was question of literature or works of fiction. No doubt, there was
not much use in poetry, and as for novels, to his mind, there were only
Dickens's works. Everything else was a lot of lies. But just the same,
it took brains to grind out a poem. It wasn't every one who could rhyme
“brave” and “glaive,” and make sense out of it. Sure not.

But Presley's case was a notable exception. On no occasion was
Annixter prepared to accept another man's opinion without reserve.
In conversation with him, it was almost impossible to make any direct
statement, however trivial, that he would accept without either
modification or open contradiction. He had a passion for violent
discussion. He would argue upon every subject in the range of
human knowledge, from astronomy to the tariff, from the doctrine of
predestination to the height of a horse. Never would he admit himself to
be mistaken; when cornered, he would intrench himself behind the remark,
“Yes, that's all very well. In some ways, it is, and then, again, in
some ways, it ISN'T.”

Singularly enough, he and Presley were the best of friends. More than
once, Presley marvelled at this state of affairs, telling himself
that he and Annixter had nothing in common. In all his circle of
acquaintances, Presley was the one man with whom Annixter had never
quarrelled. The two men were diametrically opposed in temperament.
Presley was easy-going; Annixter, alert. Presley was a confirmed
dreamer, irresolute, inactive, with a strong tendency to melancholy;
the young farmer was a man of affairs, decisive, combative, whose
only reflection upon his interior economy was a morbid concern in
the vagaries of his stomach. Yet the two never met without a mutual
pleasure, taking a genuine interest in each other's affairs, and often
putting themselves to great inconvenience to be of trifling service to
help one another.

As a last characteristic, Annixter pretended to be a woman-hater, for
no other reason than that he was a very bull-calf of awkwardness in
feminine surroundings. Feemales! Rot! There was a fine way for a man to
waste his time and his good money, lally gagging with a lot of feemales.
No, thank you; none of it in HIS, if you please. Once only he had an
affair--a timid, little creature in a glove-cleaning establishment in
Sacramento, whom he had picked up, Heaven knew how. After his return
to his ranch, a correspondence had been maintained between the two,
Annixter taking the precaution to typewrite his letters, and never
affixing his signature, in an excess of prudence. He furthermore made
carbon copies of all his letters, filing them away in a compartment
of his safe. Ah, it would be a clever feemale who would get him into a
mess. Then, suddenly smitten with a panic terror that he had committed
himself, that he was involving himself too deeply, he had abruptly sent
the little woman about her business. It was his only love affair. After
that, he kept himself free. No petticoats should ever have a hold on
him. Sure not.

As Presley came up to the edge of the porch, pushing his bicycle in
front of him, Annixter excused himself for not getting up, alleging that
the cramps returned the moment he was off his back.

“What are you doing up this way?” he demanded.

“Oh, just having a look around,” answered Presley. “How's the ranch?”

“Say,” observed the other, ignoring his question, “what's this I hear
about Derrick giving his tenants the bounce, and working Los Muertos
himself--working ALL his land?”

Presley made a sharp movement of impatience with his free hand. “I've
heard nothing else myself since morning. I suppose it must be so.”

“Huh!” grunted Annixter, spitting out a prune stone. “You give Magnus
Derrick my compliments and tell him he's a fool.” “What do you mean?”

“I suppose Derrick thinks he's still running his mine, and that the same
principles will apply to getting grain out of the earth as to getting
gold. Oh, let him go on and see where he brings up. That's right,
there's your Western farmer,” he exclaimed contemptuously. “Get the
guts out of your land; work it to death; never give it a rest. Never
alternate your crop, and then when your soil is exhausted, sit down and
roar about hard times.”

“I suppose Magnus thinks the land has had rest enough these last two dry
seasons,” observed Presley. “He has raised no crop to speak of for two
years. The land has had a good rest.”

“Ah, yes, that sounds well,” Annixter contradicted, unwilling to be
convinced. “In a way, the land's been rested, and then, again, in a way,
it hasn't.”

But Presley, scenting an argument, refrained from answering, and
bethought himself of moving on.

“I'm going to leave my wheel here for a while, Buck,” he said, “if you
don't mind. I'm going up to the spring, and the road is rough between
here and there.”

“Stop in for dinner on your way back,” said Annixter. “There'll be a
venison steak. One of the boys got a deer over in the foothills last
week. Out of season, but never mind that. I can't eat it. This stomach
of mine wouldn't digest sweet oil to-day. Get here about six.”

“Well, maybe I will, thank you,” said Presley, moving off. “By the way,”
 he added, “I see your barn is about done.”

“You bet,” answered Annixter. “In about a fortnight now she'll be all
ready.”

“It's a big barn,” murmured Presley, glancing around the angle of the
house toward where the great structure stood.

“Guess we'll have to have a dance there before we move the stock in,”
 observed Annixter. “That's the custom all around here.”

Presley took himself off, but at the gate Annixter called after him, his
mouth full of prunes, “Say, take a look at that herd of sheep as you go
up. They are right off here to the east of the road, about half a mile
from here. I guess that's the biggest lot of sheep YOU ever saw. You
might write a poem about 'em. Lamb--ram; sheep graze--sunny days. Catch
on?”

Beyond Broderson Creek, as Presley advanced, tramping along on foot now,
the land opened out again into the same vast spaces of dull brown earth,
sprinkled with stubble, such as had been characteristic of Derrick's
ranch. To the east the reach seemed infinite, flat, cheerless,
heat-ridden, unrolling like a gigantic scroll toward the faint shimmer
of the distant horizons, with here and there an isolated live-oak to
break the sombre monotony. But bordering the road to the westward, the
surface roughened and raised, clambering up to the higher ground, on the
crest of which the old Mission and its surrounding pear trees were now
plainly visible.

Just beyond the Mission, the road bent abruptly eastward, striking off
across the Seed ranch. But Presley left the road at this point, going
on across the open fields. There was no longer any trail. It was toward
three o'clock. The sun still spun, a silent, blazing disc, high in the
heavens, and tramping through the clods of uneven, broken plough was
fatiguing work. The slope of the lowest foothills begun, the surface of
the country became rolling, and, suddenly, as he topped a higher ridge,
Presley came upon the sheep.

Already he had passed the larger part of the herd--an intervening rise
of ground having hidden it from sight. Now, as he turned half way about,
looking down into the shallow hollow between him and the curve of the
creek, he saw them very plainly. The fringe of the herd was some two
hundred yards distant, but its farther side, in that illusive shimmer of
hot surface air, seemed miles away. The sheep were spread out roughly
in the shape of a figure eight, two larger herds connected by a smaller,
and were headed to the southward, moving slowly, grazing on the wheat
stubble as they proceeded. But the number seemed incalculable. Hundreds
upon hundreds upon hundreds of grey, rounded backs, all exactly alike,
huddled, close-packed, alive, hid the earth from sight. It was no longer
an aggregate of individuals. It was a mass--a compact, solid, slowly
moving mass, huge, without form, like a thick-pressed growth of
mushrooms, spreading out in all directions over the earth. From it there
arose a vague murmur, confused, inarticulate, like the sound of very
distant surf, while all the air in the vicinity was heavy with the warm,
ammoniacal odour of the thousands of crowding bodies.

All the colours of the scene were sombre--the brown of the earth, the
faded yellow of the dead stubble, the grey of the myriad of undulating
backs. Only on the far side of the herd, erect, motionless--a single
note of black, a speck, a dot--the shepherd stood, leaning upon an empty
water-trough, solitary, grave, impressive.

For a few moments, Presley stood, watching. Then, as he started to move
on, a curious thing occurred. At first, he thought he had heard some one
call his name. He paused, listening; there was no sound but the vague
noise of the moving sheep. Then, as this first impression passed, it
seemed to him that he had been beckoned to. Yet nothing stirred; except
for the lonely figure beyond the herd there was no one in sight. He
started on again, and in half a dozen steps found himself looking over
his shoulder. Without knowing why, he looked toward the shepherd; then
halted and looked a second time and a third. Had the shepherd called
to him? Presley knew that he had heard no voice. Brusquely, all his
attention seemed riveted upon this distant figure. He put one forearm
over his eyes, to keep off the sun, gazing across the intervening herd.
Surely, the shepherd had called him. But at the next instant he started,
uttering an exclamation under his breath. The far-away speck of black
became animated. Presley remarked a sweeping gesture. Though the man
had not beckoned to him before, there was no doubt that he was beckoning
now. Without any hesitation, and singularly interested in the incident,
Presley turned sharply aside and hurried on toward the shepherd,
skirting the herd, wondering all the time that he should answer the call
with so little question, so little hesitation.

But the shepherd came forward to meet Presley, followed by one of his
dogs. As the two men approached each other, Presley, closely studying
the other, began to wonder where he had seen him before. It must have
been a very long time ago, upon one of his previous visits to the ranch.
Certainly, however, there was something familiar in the shepherd's face
and figure. When they came closer to each other, and Presley could see
him more distinctly, this sense of a previous acquaintance was increased
and sharpened.

The shepherd was a man of about thirty-five. He was very lean and spare.
His brown canvas overalls were thrust into laced boots. A cartridge belt
without any cartridges encircled his waist. A grey flannel shirt, open
at the throat, showed his breast, tanned and ruddy. He wore no hat. His
hair was very black and rather long. A pointed beard covered his chin,
growing straight and fine from the hollow cheeks. The absence of any
covering for his head was, no doubt, habitual with him, for his face was
as brown as an Indian's--a ruddy brown quite different from Presley's
dark olive. To Presley's morbidly keen observation, the general
impression of the shepherd's face was intensely interesting. It was
uncommon to an astonishing degree. Presley's vivid imagination chose to
see in it the face of an ascetic, of a recluse, almost that of a young
seer. So must have appeared the half-inspired shepherds of the Hebraic
legends, the younger prophets of Israel, dwellers in the wilderness,
beholders of visions, having their existence in a continual dream,
talkers with God, gifted with strange powers.

Suddenly, at some twenty paces distant from the approaching shepherd,
Presley stopped short, his eyes riveted upon the other.

“Vanamee!” he exclaimed.

The shepherd smiled and came forward, holding out his hands, saying, “I
thought it was you. When I saw you come over the hill, I called you.”

“But not with your voice,” returned Presley. “I knew that some one
wanted me. I felt it. I should have remembered that you could do that
kind of thing.”

“I have never known it to fail. It helps with the sheep.”

“With the sheep?”

“In a way. I can't tell exactly how. We don't understand these things
yet. There are times when, if I close my eyes and dig my fists into
my temples, I can hold the entire herd for perhaps a minute. Perhaps,
though, it's imagination, who knows? But it's good to see you again. How
long has it been since the last time? Two, three, nearly five years.”

It was more than that. It was six years since Presley and Vanamee had
met, and then it had been for a short time only, during one of the
shepherd's periodical brief returns to that part of the country. During
a week he and Presley had been much together, for the two were devoted
friends. Then, as abruptly, as mysteriously as he had come, Vanamee
disappeared. Presley awoke one morning to find him gone. Thus, it had
been with Vanamee for a period of sixteen years. He lived his life in
the unknown, one could not tell where--in the desert, in the mountains,
throughout all the vast and vague South-west, solitary, strange. Three,
four, five years passed. The shepherd would be almost forgotten. Never
the most trivial scrap of information as to his whereabouts reached Los
Muertos. He had melted off into the surface-shimmer of the desert, into
the mirage; he sank below the horizons; he was swallowed up in the waste
of sand and sage. Then, without warning, he would reappear, coming in
from the wilderness, emerging from the unknown. No one knew him well. In
all that countryside he had but three friends, Presley, Magnus Derrick,
and the priest at the Mission of San Juan de Guadalajara, Father Sarria.
He remained always a mystery, living a life half-real, half-legendary.
In all those years he did not seem to have grown older by a single day.
At this time, Presley knew him to be thirty-six years of age. But since
the first day the two had met, the shepherd's face and bearing had, to
his eyes, remained the same. At this moment, Presley was looking into
the same face he had first seen many, many years ago. It was a face
stamped with an unspeakable sadness, a deathless grief, the permanent
imprint of a tragedy long past, but yet a living issue. Presley told
himself that it was impossible to look long into Vanamee's eyes without
knowing that here was a man whose whole being had been at one time
shattered and riven to its lowest depths, whose life had suddenly
stopped at a certain moment of its development.

The two friends sat down upon the ledge of the watering-trough, their
eyes wandering incessantly toward the slow moving herd, grazing on the
wheat stubble, moving southward as they grazed.

“Where have you come from this time?” Presley had asked. “Where have you
kept yourself?”

The other swept the horizon to the south and east with a vague gesture.

“Off there, down to the south, very far off. So many places that I can't
remember. I went the Long Trail this time; a long, long ways. Arizona,
The Mexicos, and, then, afterwards, Utah and Nevada, following the
horizon, travelling at hazard. Into Arizona first, going in by Monument
Pass, and then on to the south, through the country of the Navajos, down
by the Aga Thia Needle--a great blade of red rock jutting from out the
desert, like a knife thrust. Then on and on through The Mexicos, all
through the Southwest, then back again in a great circle by Chihuahua
and Aldama to Laredo, to Torreon, and Albuquerque. From there across
the Uncompahgre plateau into the Uintah country; then at last due west
through Nevada to California and to the valley of the San Joaquin.” His
voice lapsed to a monotone, his eyes becoming fixed; he continued to
speak as though half awake, his thoughts elsewhere, seeing again in the
eye of his mind the reach of desert and red hill, the purple mountain,
the level stretch of alkali, leper white, all the savage, gorgeous
desolation of the Long Trail.

He ignored Presley for the moment, but, on the other hand, Presley
himself gave him but half his attention. The return of Vanamee had
stimulated the poet's memory. He recalled the incidents of Vanamee's
life, reviewing again that terrible drama which had uprooted his soul,
which had driven him forth a wanderer, a shunner of men, a sojourner in
waste places. He was, strangely enough, a college graduate and a man of
wide reading and great intelligence, but he had chosen to lead his own
life, which was that of a recluse.

Of a temperament similar in many ways to Presley's, there were
capabilities in Vanamee that were not ordinarily to be found in the
rank and file of men. Living close to nature, a poet by instinct, where
Presley was but a poet by training, there developed in him a great
sensitiveness to beauty and an almost abnormal capacity for great
happiness and great sorrow; he felt things intensely, deeply. He never
forgot. It was when he was eighteen or nineteen, at the formative and
most impressionable period of his life, that he had met Angele Varian.
Presley barely remembered her as a girl of sixteen, beautiful almost
beyond expression, who lived with an aged aunt on the Seed ranch back of
the Mission. At this moment he was trying to recall how she looked, with
her hair of gold hanging in two straight plaits on either side of her
face, making three-cornered her round, white forehead; her wonderful
eyes, violet blue, heavy lidded, with their astonishing upward slant
toward the temples, the slant that gave a strange, oriental cast to her
face, perplexing, enchanting. He remembered the Egyptian fulness of the
lips, the strange balancing movement of her head upon her slender neck,
the same movement that one sees in a snake at poise. Never had he seen a
girl more radiantly beautiful, never a beauty so strange, so troublous,
so out of all accepted standards. It was small wonder that Vanamee had
loved her, and less wonder, still, that his love had been so intense, so
passionate, so part of himself. Angele had loved him with a love no
less than his own. It was one of those legendary passions that sometimes
occur, idyllic, untouched by civilisation, spontaneous as the growth of
trees, natural as dew-fall, strong as the firm-seated mountains.

At the time of his meeting with Angele, Vanamee was living on the Los
Muertos ranch. It was there he had chosen to spend one of his college
vacations. But he preferred to pass it in out-of-door work, sometimes
herding cattle, sometimes pitching hay, sometimes working with pick
and dynamite-stick on the ditches in the fourth division of the ranch,
riding the range, mending breaks in the wire fences, making himself
generally useful. College bred though he was, the life pleased him. He
was, as he desired, close to nature, living the full measure of life, a
worker among workers, taking enjoyment in simple pleasures, healthy in
mind and body. He believed in an existence passed in this fashion in the
country, working hard, eating full, drinking deep, sleeping dreamlessly.

But every night, after supper, he saddled his pony and rode over to the
garden of the old Mission. The 'dobe dividing wall on that side, which
once had separated the Mission garden and the Seed ranch, had long since
crumbled away, and the boundary between the two pieces of ground was
marked only by a line of venerable pear trees. Here, under these trees,
he found Angele awaiting him, and there the two would sit through the
hot, still evening, their arms about each other, watching the moon
rise over the foothills, listening to the trickle of the water in the
moss-encrusted fountain in the garden, and the steady croak of the great
frogs that lived in the damp north corner of the enclosure. Through all
one summer the enchantment of that new-found, wonderful love, pure and
untainted, filled the lives of each of them with its sweetness. The
summer passed, the harvest moon came and went. The nights were very
dark. In the deep shade of the pear trees they could no longer see each
other. When they met at the rendezvous, Vanamee found her only with his
groping hands. They did not speak, mere words were useless between them.
Silently as his reaching hands touched her warm body, he took her in his
arms, searching for her lips with his. Then one night the tragedy had
suddenly leaped from out the shadow with the abruptness of an explosion.

It was impossible afterwards to reconstruct the manner of its
occurrence. To Angele's mind--what there was left of it--the matter
always remained a hideous blur, a blot, a vague, terrible confusion.
No doubt they two had been watched; the plan succeeded too well for any
other supposition. One moonless night, Angele, arriving under the
black shadow of the pear trees a little earlier than usual, found the
apparently familiar figure waiting for her. All unsuspecting she gave
herself to the embrace of a strange pair of arms, and Vanamee arriving
but a score of moments later, stumbled over her prostrate body, inert
and unconscious, in the shadow of the overspiring trees.

Who was the Other? Angele was carried to her home on the Seed ranch,
delirious, all but raving, and Vanamee, with knife and revolver ready,
ranged the country-side like a wolf. He was not alone. The whole county
rose, raging, horror-struck. Posse after posse was formed, sent out, and
returned, without so much as a clue. Upon no one could even the shadow
of suspicion be thrown. The Other had withdrawn into an impenetrable
mystery. There he remained. He never was found; he never was so much
as heard of. A legend arose about him, this prowler of the night, this
strange, fearful figure, with an unseen face, swooping in there from
out the darkness, come and gone in an instant, but leaving behind him a
track of terror and death and rage and undying grief. Within the year,
in giving birth to the child, Angele had died.

The little babe was taken by Angele's parents, and Angele was buried
in the Mission garden near to the aged, grey sun dial. Vanamee stood by
during the ceremony, but half conscious of what was going forward. At
the last moment he had stepped forward, looked long into the dead face
framed in its plaits of gold hair, the hair that made three-cornered
the round, white forehead; looked again at the closed eyes, with their
perplexing upward slant toward the temples, oriental, bizarre; at the
lips with their Egyptian fulness; at the sweet, slender neck; the long,
slim hands; then abruptly turned about. The last clods were filling the
grave at a time when he was already far away, his horse's head turned
toward the desert.

For two years no syllable was heard of him. It was believed that he had
killed himself. But Vanamee had no thought of that. For two years he
wandered through Arizona, living in the desert, in the wilderness, a
recluse, a nomad, an ascetic. But, doubtless, all his heart was in the
little coffin in the Mission garden. Once in so often he must come
back thither. One day he was seen again in the San Joaquin. The priest,
Father Sarria, returning from a visit to the sick at Bonneville, met him
on the Upper Road. Eighteen years had passed since Angele had died, but
the thread of Vanamee's life had been snapped. Nothing remained now
but the tangled ends. He had never forgotten. The long, dull ache, the
poignant grief had now become a part of him. Presley knew this to be so.

While Presley had been reflecting upon all this, Vanamee had continued
to speak. Presley, however, had not been wholly inattentive. While
his memory was busy reconstructing the details of the drama of the
shepherd's life, another part of his brain had been swiftly registering
picture after picture that Vanamee's monotonous flow of words struck
off, as it were, upon a steadily moving scroll. The music of the
unfamiliar names that occurred in his recital was a stimulant to the
poet's imagination. Presley had the poet's passion for expressive,
sonorous names. As these came and went in Vanamee's monotonous
undertones, like little notes of harmony in a musical progression, he
listened, delighted with their resonance.--Navajo, Quijotoa, Uintah,
Sonora, Laredo, Uncompahgre--to him they were so many symbols. It was
his West that passed, unrolling there before the eye of his mind:
the open, heat-scourged round of desert; the mesa, like a vast altar,
shimmering purple in the royal sunset; the still, gigantic mountains,
heaving into the sky from out the canyons; the strenuous, fierce life
of isolated towns, lost and forgotten, down there, far off, below the
horizon. Abruptly his great poem, his Song of the West, leaped up again
in his imagination. For the moment, he all but held it. It was there,
close at hand. In another instant he would grasp it.

“Yes, yes,” he exclaimed, “I can see it all. The desert, the mountains,
all wild, primordial, untamed. How I should have loved to have been with
you. Then, perhaps, I should have got hold of my idea.”

“Your idea?”

“The great poem of the West. It's that which I want to write. Oh, to
put it all into hexameters; strike the great iron note; sing the vast,
terrible song; the song of the People; the forerunners of empire!”

Vanamee understood him perfectly. He nodded gravely.

“Yes, it is there. It is Life, the primitive, simple, direct Life,
passionate, tumultuous. Yes, there is an epic there.”

Presley caught at the word. It had never before occurred to him.

“Epic, yes, that's it. It is the epic I'm searching for. And HOW I
search for it. You don't know. It is sometimes almost an agony. Often
and often I can feel it right there, there, at my finger-tips, but I
never quite catch it. It always eludes me. I was born too late. Ah, to
get back to that first clear-eyed view of things, to see as Homer saw,
as Beowulf saw, as the Nibelungen poets saw. The life is here, the same
as then; the Poem is here; my West is here; the primeval, epic life
is here, here under our hands, in the desert, in the mountain, on the
ranch, all over here, from Winnipeg to Guadalupe. It is the man who is
lacking, the poet; we have been educated away from it all. We are out of
touch. We are out of tune.”

Vanamee heard him to the end, his grave, sad face thoughtful and
attentive. Then he rose.

“I am going over to the Mission,” he said, “to see Father Sarria. I have
not seen him yet.”

“How about the sheep?”

“The dogs will keep them in hand, and I shall not be gone long. Besides
that, I have a boy here to help. He is over yonder on the other side of
the herd. We can't see him from here.”

Presley wondered at the heedlessness of leaving the sheep so slightly
guarded, but made no comment, and the two started off across the field
in the direction of the Mission church.

“Well, yes, it is there--your epic,” observed Vanamee, as they went
along. “But why write? Why not LIVE in it? Steep oneself in the heat of
the desert, the glory of the sunset, the blue haze of the mesa and the
canyon.”

“As you have done, for instance?”

Vanamee nodded.

“No, I could not do that,” declared Presley; “I want to go back, but not
so far as you. I feel that I must compromise. I must find expression.
I could not lose myself like that in your desert. When its vastness
overwhelmed me, or its beauty dazzled me, or its loneliness weighed down
upon me, I should have to record my impressions. Otherwise, I should
suffocate.”

“Each to his own life,” observed Vanamee.

The Mission of San Juan, built of brown 'dobe blocks, covered with
yellow plaster, that at many points had dropped away from the walls,
stood on the crest of a low rise of the ground, facing to the south. A
covered colonnade, paved with round, worn bricks, from whence opened the
doors of the abandoned cells, once used by the monks, adjoined it on the
left. The roof was of tiled half-cylinders, split longitudinally, and
laid in alternate rows, now concave, now convex. The main body of the
church itself was at right angles to the colonnade, and at the point of
intersection rose the belfry tower, an ancient campanile, where swung
the three cracked bells, the gift of the King of Spain. Beyond the
church was the Mission garden and the graveyard that overlooked the Seed
ranch in a little hollow beyond.

Presley and Vanamee went down the long colonnade to the last door next
the belfry tower, and Vanamee pulled the leather thong that hung from
a hole in the door, setting a little bell jangling somewhere in the
interior. The place, but for this noise, was shrouded in a Sunday
stillness, an absolute repose. Only at intervals, one heard the trickle
of the unseen fountain, and the liquid cooing of doves in the garden.

Father Sarria opened the door. He was a small man, somewhat stout, with
a smooth and shiny face. He wore a frock coat that was rather dirty,
slippers, and an old yachting cap of blue cloth, with a broken leather
vizor. He was smoking a cheap cigar, very fat and black.

But instantly he recognised Vanamee. His face went all alight with
pleasure and astonishment. It seemed as if he would never have finished
shaking both his hands; and, as it was, he released but one of them,
patting him affectionately on the shoulder with the other. He was
voluble in his welcome, talking partly in Spanish, partly in English. So
he had come back again, this great fellow, tanned as an Indian, lean as
an Indian, with an Indian's long, black hair. But he had not changed,
not in the very least. His beard had not grown an inch. Aha! The rascal,
never to give warning, to drop down, as it were, from out the sky. Such
a hermit! To live in the desert! A veritable Saint Jerome. Did a lion
feed him down there in Arizona, or was it a raven, like Elijah? The good
God had not fattened him, at any rate, and, apropos, he was just about
to dine himself. He had made a salad from his own lettuce. The two would
dine with him, eh? For this, my son, that was lost is found again.

But Presley excused himself. Instinctively, he felt that Sarria and
Vanamee wanted to talk of things concerning which he was an outsider. It
was not at all unlikely that Vanamee would spend half the night before
the high altar in the church.

He took himself away, his mind still busy with Vanamee's extraordinary
life and character. But, as he descended the hill, he was startled by
a prolonged and raucous cry, discordant, very harsh, thrice repeated at
exact intervals, and, looking up, he saw one of Father Sarria's peacocks
balancing himself upon the topmost wire of the fence, his long tail
trailing, his neck outstretched, filling the air with his stupid outcry,
for no reason than the desire to make a noise.

About an hour later, toward four in the afternoon, Presley reached the
spring at the head of the little canyon in the northeast corner of the
Quien Sabe ranch, the point toward which he had been travelling since
early in the forenoon. The place was not without its charm. Innumerable
live-oaks overhung the canyon, and Broderson Creek--there a mere
rivulet, running down from the spring--gave a certain coolness to the
air. It was one of the few spots thereabouts that had survived the
dry season of the last year. Nearly all the other springs had dried
completely, while Mission Creek on Derrick's ranch was nothing better
than a dusty cutting in the ground, filled with brittle, concave flakes
of dried and sun-cracked mud.

Presley climbed to the summit of one of the hills--the highest--that
rose out of the canyon, from the crest of which he could see for thirty,
fifty, sixty miles down the valley, and, filling his pipe, smoked lazily
for upwards of an hour, his head empty of thought, allowing himself to
succumb to a pleasant, gentle inanition, a little drowsy comfortable in
his place, prone upon the ground, warmed just enough by such sunlight
as filtered through the live-oaks, soothed by the good tobacco and the
prolonged murmur of the spring and creek. By degrees, the sense of his
own personality became blunted, the little wheels and cogs of thought
moved slower and slower; consciousness dwindled to a point, the animal
in him stretched itself, purring. A delightful numbness invaded his mind
and his body. He was not asleep, he was not awake, stupefied merely,
lapsing back to the state of the faun, the satyr.

After a while, rousing himself a little, he shifted his position and,
drawing from the pocket of his shooting coat his little tree-calf
edition of the Odyssey, read far into the twenty-first book, where,
after the failure of all the suitors to bend Ulysses's bow, it is
finally put, with mockery, into his own hands. Abruptly the drama of
the story roused him from all his languor. In an instant he was the
poet again, his nerves tingling, alive to every sensation, responsive
to every impression. The desire of creation, of composition, grew big
within him. Hexameters of his own clamoured, tumultuous, in his brain.
Not for a long time had he “felt his poem,” as he called this sensation,
so poignantly. For an instant he told himself that he actually held it.

It was, no doubt, Vanamee's talk that had stimulated him to this
point. The story of the Long Trail, with its desert and mountain, its
cliff-dwellers, its Aztec ruins, its colour, movement, and romance,
filled his mind with picture after picture. The epic defiled before his
vision like a pageant. Once more, he shot a glance about him, as if in
search of the inspiration, and this time he all but found it. He rose to
his feet, looking out and off below him.

As from a pinnacle, Presley, from where he now stood, dominated the
entire country. The sun had begun to set, everything in the range of his
vision was overlaid with a sheen of gold.

First, close at hand, it was the Seed ranch, carpeting the little hollow
behind the Mission with a spread of greens, some dark, some vivid,
some pale almost to yellowness. Beyond that was the Mission itself,
its venerable campanile, in whose arches hung the Spanish King's bells,
already glowing ruddy in the sunset. Farther on, he could make out
Annixter's ranch house, marked by the skeleton-like tower of the
artesian well, and, a little farther to the east, the huddled, tiled
roofs of Guadalajara. Far to the west and north, he saw Bonneville very
plain, and the dome of the courthouse, a purple silhouette against the
glare of the sky. Other points detached themselves, swimming in a golden
mist, projecting blue shadows far before them; the mammoth live-oak by
Hooven's, towering superb and magnificent; the line of eucalyptus trees,
behind which he knew was the Los Muertos ranch house--his home; the
watering-tank, the great iron-hooped tower of wood that stood at the
joining of the Lower Road and the County Road; the long wind-break of
poplar trees and the white walls of Caraher's saloon on the County Road.

But all this seemed to be only foreground, a mere array of
accessories--a mass of irrelevant details. Beyond Annixter's, beyond
Guadalajara, beyond the Lower Road, beyond Broderson Creek, on to the
south and west, infinite, illimitable, stretching out there under the
sheen of the sunset forever and forever, flat, vast, unbroken, a huge
scroll, unrolling between the horizons, spread the great stretches of
the ranch of Los Muertos, bare of crops, shaved close in the recent
harvest. Near at hand were hills, but on that far southern horizon only
the curve of the great earth itself checked the view. Adjoining Los
Muertos, and widening to the west, opened the Broderson ranch. The
Osterman ranch to the northwest carried on the great sweep of landscape;
ranch after ranch. Then, as the imagination itself expanded under the
stimulus of that measureless range of vision, even those great ranches
resolved themselves into mere foreground, mere accessories, irrelevant
details. Beyond the fine line of the horizons, over the curve of the
globe, the shoulder of the earth, were other ranches, equally vast, and
beyond these, others, and beyond these, still others, the immensities
multiplying, lengthening out vaster and vaster. The whole gigantic
sweep of the San Joaquin expanded, Titanic, before the eye of the mind,
flagellated with heat, quivering and shimmering under the sun's red eye.
At long intervals, a faint breath of wind out of the south passed slowly
over the levels of the baked and empty earth, accentuating the silence,
marking off the stillness. It seemed to exhale from the land itself, a
prolonged sigh as of deep fatigue. It was the season after the harvest,
and the great earth, the mother, after its period of reproduction, its
pains of labour, delivered of the fruit of its loins, slept the sleep
of exhaustion, the infinite repose of the colossus, benignant, eternal,
strong, the nourisher of nations, the feeder of an entire world. Ha!
there it was, his epic, his inspiration, his West, his thundering
progression of hexameters. A sudden uplift, a sense of exhilaration, of
physical exaltation appeared abruptly to sweep Presley from his feet. As
from a point high above the world, he seemed to dominate a universe, a
whole order of things. He was dizzied, stunned, stupefied, his morbid
supersensitive mind reeling, drunk with the intoxication of mere
immensity. Stupendous ideas for which there were no names drove headlong
through his brain. Terrible, formless shapes, vague figures, gigantic,
monstrous, distorted, whirled at a gallop through his imagination.

He started homeward, still in his dream, descending from the hill,
emerging from the canyon, and took the short cut straight across the
Quien Sabe ranch, leaving Guadalajara far to his left. He tramped
steadily on through the wheat stubble, walking fast, his head in a
whirl.

Never had he so nearly grasped his inspiration as at that moment on the
hilltop. Even now, though the sunset was fading, though the wide reach
of valley was shut from sight, it still kept him company. Now the
details came thronging back--the component parts of his poem, the signs
and symbols of the West. It was there, close at hand, he had been in
touch with it all day. It was in the centenarian's vividly coloured
reminiscences--De La Cuesta, holding his grant from the Spanish crown,
with his power of life and death; the romance of his marriage; the white
horse with its pillion of red leather and silver bridle mountings; the
bull-fights in the Plaza; the gifts of gold dust, and horses and tallow.
It was in Vanamee's strange history, the tragedy of his love; Angele
Varian, with her marvellous loveliness; the Egyptian fulness of her
lips, the perplexing upward slant of her violet eyes, bizarre, oriental;
her white forehead made three cornered by her plaits of gold hair; the
mystery of the Other; her death at the moment of her child's birth.
It was in Vanamee's flight into the wilderness; the story of the Long
Trail, the sunsets behind the altar-like mesas, the baking desolation of
the deserts; the strenuous, fierce life of forgotten towns, down there,
far off, lost below the horizons of the southwest; the sonorous music of
unfamiliar names--Quijotoa, Uintah, Sonora, Laredo, Uncompahgre. It
was in the Mission, with its cracked bells, its decaying walls, its
venerable sun dial, its fountain and old garden, and in the Mission
Fathers themselves, the priests, the padres, planting the first wheat
and oil and wine to produce the elements of the Sacrament--a trinity of
great industries, taking their rise in a religious rite.

Abruptly, as if in confirmation, Presley heard the sound of a bell from
the direction of the Mission itself. It was the de Profundis, a note
of the Old World; of the ancient regime, an echo from the hillsides
of mediaeval Europe, sounding there in this new land, unfamiliar and
strange at this end-of-the-century time.

By now, however, it was dark. Presley hurried forward. He came to the
line fence of the Quien Sabe ranch. Everything was very still. The stars
were all out. There was not a sound other than the de Profundis, still
sounding from very far away. At long intervals the great earth sighed
dreamily in its sleep. All about, the feeling of absolute peace
and quiet and security and untroubled happiness and content seemed
descending from the stars like a benediction. The beauty of his poem,
its idyl, came to him like a caress; that alone had been lacking. It was
that, perhaps, which had left it hitherto incomplete. At last he was
to grasp his song in all its entity. But suddenly there was an
interruption. Presley had climbed the fence at the limit of the
Quien Sabe ranch. Beyond was Los Muertos, but between the two ran the
railroad. He had only time to jump back upon the embankment when, with
a quivering of all the earth, a locomotive, single, unattached, shot
by him with a roar, filling the air with the reek of hot oil, vomiting
smoke and sparks; its enormous eye, cyclopean, red, throwing a glare far
in advance, shooting by in a sudden crash of confused thunder; filling
the night with the terrific clamour of its iron hoofs.

Abruptly Presley remembered. This must be the crack passenger engine
of which Dyke had told him, the one delayed by the accident on the
Bakersfield division and for whose passage the track had been opened all
the way to Fresno.

Before Presley could recover from the shock of the irruption, while the
earth was still vibrating, the rails still humming, the engine was far
away, flinging the echo of its frantic gallop over all the valley. For a
brief instant it roared with a hollow diapason on the Long Trestle over
Broderson Creek, then plunged into a cutting farther on, the quivering
glare of its fires losing itself in the night, its thunder abruptly
diminishing to a subdued and distant humming. All at once this ceased.
The engine was gone.

But the moment the noise of the engine lapsed, Presley--about to start
forward again--was conscious of a confusion of lamentable sounds that
rose into the night from out the engine's wake. Prolonged cries of
agony, sobbing wails of infinite pain, heart-rending, pitiful.

The noises came from a little distance. He ran down the track, crossing
the culvert, over the irrigating ditch, and at the head of the long
reach of track--between the culvert and the Long Trestle--paused
abruptly, held immovable at the sight of the ground and rails all about
him.

In some way, the herd of sheep--Vanamee's herd--had found a breach in
the wire fence by the right of way and had wandered out upon the tracks.
A band had been crossing just at the moment of the engine's passage. The
pathos of it was beyond expression. It was a slaughter, a massacre of
innocents. The iron monster had charged full into the midst, merciless,
inexorable. To the right and left, all the width of the right of way,
the little bodies had been flung; backs were snapped against the fence
posts; brains knocked out. Caught in the barbs of the wire, wedged in,
the bodies hung suspended. Under foot it was terrible. The black blood,
winking in the starlight, seeped down into the clinkers between the ties
with a prolonged sucking murmur.

Presley turned away, horror-struck, sick at heart, overwhelmed with a
quick burst of irresistible compassion for this brute agony he could not
relieve. The sweetness was gone from the evening, the sense of peace,
of security, and placid contentment was stricken from the landscape. The
hideous ruin in the engine's path drove all thought of his poem from his
mind. The inspiration vanished like a mist. The de Profundis had ceased
to ring.

He hurried on across the Los Muertos ranch, almost running, even putting
his hands over his ears till he was out of hearing distance of that
all but human distress. Not until he was beyond ear-shot did he pause,
looking back, listening. The night had shut down again. For a moment the
silence was profound, unbroken.

Then, faint and prolonged, across the levels of the ranch, he heard the
engine whistling for Bonneville. Again and again, at rapid intervals in
its flying course, it whistled for road crossings, for sharp curves, for
trestles; ominous notes, hoarse, bellowing, ringing with the accents of
menace and defiance; and abruptly Presley saw again, in his imagination,
the galloping monster, the terror of steel and steam, with its single
eye, cyclopean, red, shooting from horizon to horizon; but saw it now
as the symbol of a vast power, huge, terrible, flinging the echo of
its thunder over all the reaches of the valley, leaving blood and
destruction in its path; the leviathan, with tentacles of steel
clutching into the soil, the soulless Force, the iron-hearted Power, the
monster, the Colossus, the Octopus.



